README.md, before:

### RVFV Evolution in Africa 
Manuscript:**“Evolutionary Dynamics and Molecular Adaptation of Rift Valley fever virus across human and non-human outbreaks in Africa.”**

This repository contains reproducible scripts, workflows, and datasets used to generate all mutation profiling, phylogenetic trees, temporal reconstructions, and selection pressure analyses for Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV) genomes (1940–2020).

---

#### 📌 Project Overview

Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV) is an emerging zoonotic pathogen with a broad host range and significant public health and veterinary impact across Africa. This study performed the first continental wide analysis integrating:

- Protein-coding mutation identification  
- Comparative genomic diversity (Human,livestock, wildlife & vectors) 
- Time-scaled phylogenetics to study transmission bottlenecks  
- Codon level selection pressure analysis using models (FUBAR, FEL, SLAC)  
- Geographic and temporal mapping of adaptive mutations  

The analyses identify seven nonsynonymous mutations, adaptive codons and host-specific selection signals that shape RVFV evolution across Africa (1940-2020)

---

#### 🧬 Repository Structure

Commit message:

Revise README to enhance clarity on repository contents
Updated repository description to clarify contents and focus on protein coding mutations.

README.md, after:

### RVFV Evolution in Africa 
Manuscript:**“Evolutionary Dynamics and Molecular Adaptation of Rift Valley fever virus across human and non-human outbreaks in Africa.”**

This repository contains reproducible scripts, workflows, and datasets used to generate all protein coding mutations across L,M,S segments, phylogenetic tree reconstruction, selection pressure analyses and all R/Python scripts used in the study

---

#### 📌 Project Overview

Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV) is an emerging zoonotic pathogen with a broad host range and significant public health and veterinary impact across Africa. This study performed the first continental wide analysis integrating:

- Protein-coding mutation identification  
- Comparative genomic diversity (Human,livestock, wildlife & vectors) 
- Time-scaled phylogenetics to study transmission bottlenecks  
- Codon level selection pressure analysis using models (FUBAR, FEL, SLAC)  
- Geographic and temporal mapping of adaptive mutations  

The analyses identify seven nonsynonymous mutations, adaptive codons and host-specific selection signals that shape RVFV evolution across Africa (1940-2020)

---

#### 🧬 Repository Structure
